README.md, before:

# fperf

[Formal Methods for Network Performance Analysis](https://mina.arashloo.net/docs/fperf.pdf), Mina Tahmasbi Arashloo, Ryan Beckett, Rachit Agarwal, NSDI'23



The stand-alone priority schedulers, composition of schedulers, and throughput analysis on a leaf-spine topology. More to come soon!

## Installation
fperf currently runs on Z3 v4.8.11 [link](https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/releases/tag/z3-4.8.11)

### Windows with Visual Studio
1. Download fperf through github
2. Create a new project in Visual Studio in the fperf folder
3. Download Z3 for windows [here](https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/releases/tag/z3-4.8.11)
4. Build Z3 with the instructions from [here](https://github.com/exercism/z3/blob/main/docs/INSTALLATION.md) under **Building Z3 on Windows using Visual Studio Command Prompt**
5. Go to "Project" -> "Properties" and in the General tab and perform the following:
	- Set "Platform Toolset" to "LLVM"
	- Set "C++ Language Standard" to "C++ 17 Standard"
6. Under the same "Configuration Properties" page, go to "C/C++" -> "General" -> "Include Additional Directories" and add the following:
	- `[path to z3]\z3\src\api`
	- `[path to z3]\z3\src\api\c++`<br>
	  The following may be required if Visual Studio doesn't recognize the subfolders of fperf
	- `[path to fperf]\fperf\src\qms`
	- `[path to fperf]\fperf\src\metrics`
	- `[path to fperf]\fperf\src\cps`
	- `[path to fperf]\fperf\src`
	- `[path to fperf]\fperf\lib\cps`
	- `[path to fperf]\fperf\lib\metrics`
	- `[path to fperf]\fperf\lib\qms`
	- `[path to fperf]\fperf\lib`
7. Under "Linker" -> "General" -> "Include Additional Directories", add `[path to z3]\z3\build\`
8. Under "Linker" -> "Input", add `[path to z3]\z3\build\libz3.lib`
9. Press the green arrow in the top bar of Visual Studio to run fperf

Commit message:

More progress on LDD stuff
However, crashes when I try to print the LDD constraints.

Next steps: Find minimal example

README.md, after:

# Linear Decision Diagrams for Workload Representation

Summary: This is Luc Edes (URF under Professor Mina Winter 2024). While working on fperf, Professor Mina, Amir and I frequently found that the current Workload representation was quite limiting in how we could express and manipulate them.\
Examples:
- We could not easily express the concept of a workload that is a union of two other workloads (disjunction).
- `aipg` was an unelegant metric for expressing gaps in enqueues.
- There were some others I'm now forgetting (note that I'm working on this in the Spring, after the end of my URF)

Our idea was to use [Linear Decision Diagrams](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/5351143), a variant of [Binary Decision Diagrams](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_decision_diagram) derived from [Difference Decision Diagrams](https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/3-540-48168-0_9.pdf).\
They provide:
- A compact representation of linear arithmetic constraints (note that Workloads are simply constraints on enq variables)
- Dynamic Variable Ordering: Optimize size of decision diagrams, reduce complexity
- Local Reductions

The authors (including Arie Gurfinkel, currently at UW) provide an [open-source implementation](https://github.com/seahorn/ldd) in C++ based on the [CUDD package](https://github.com/ivmai/cudd).

Using a linear arithmetic theory, each variable would represent `enq[q][t]` for some queue `q` and time `t`.\
Thus, a `cenq` constraint would be represented as a linear inequality.\
Example: `[1, 3]: cenq(2, t) >= t` could be represented using the following 3 inequalities:
- `enq[2][1] >= 1`
- `enq[2][1] + enq[2][2] >= 2`
- `enq[2][1] + enq[2][2] + enq[2][3] >= 3`
